September 17th. 1983.
The flat Fon and I got
is really nice.
especially the location.
Eight kilometres from Vigo.
surrounded by the sea.
From the lounge and bedroom.
we can see the Ría.
Cangas. Moaña. the Cíes Islands...
and the sea.
Sometimes it's calm. blue. peaceful.
Sometimes wild. choppy.
but always the sea.
Day 1:
July 16. 2004
Will I find a trace
of my biological parents?
What are you doing?
Hey. we're not finished!
CIVIL REGISTRY
Look. I've found Alfonso Piñeiro.
but not on the date you said.
- Check if this is him.
- Yes.
Yes. it's him.
But the date is wrong.
It says he had no kids.
Yes.
- I'm his daughter.
- You're his daughter?
Otherwise.
that paper is useless to me.
The declarant is Alfonso Piñeiro.
Who's this man?
Alfonso Piñeiro...
I guess it's my granddad.
- Your granddad?
- That's his name. yes.
Well. at the time.
he said your dad had no kids.
Is he alive?
- Yes.
- And your grandmother?
There's a way to fix it. then.
Talk to your grandparents.
have them sign a sworn declaration
before a notary.
then the notary
will inform the civil registry
and we'll put on the certificate
that you're his daughter.
- My grandparents?
- Yes.
Can't you just put an asterisk
and put my name here?
Marina?
Marina Piñeiro.
Welcome. At last!
Thanks.
Too many years have passed.
Did you get the paper
for your grant?
No. actually.
The paper's wrong.
We'll have to fix it.
I'll help however I can.
Can I carry something?
- No. it's fine.
They're cool. thanks.
I've never had any of these.
You'll use them plenty here.
Feeling sick?
- No. I'm fine for now.
- Yeah?
I'm not wearing Nuno's.
I can't go in otherwise.
Can't you see it's size XL?
It's XL. extra large
Hey. hey. hey.
Eugène's getting mad.
Nuno. Nuno. stop.
Leave him alone.
- Enough.
- They took my swimsuit.
- Stop.
- It's fine.
- I can't go swimming though.
- Swim naked.
- I'm not swimming naked.
- Enough.
Are the cousins you live with
just as annoying?
They're my cousins.
but they're like my siblings.
Lois is so happy to have you here.
I mean.
having a cousin you don't know...
it's weird. right?
Let's take a photo...
- You're just like your mum.
- Yes.
Do your parents live in Vigo?
On the outskirts.
We'll visit them in a couple of days.
Those are the Cíes Islands.
Come on. Nuno!
Race you to the beach!
Is it cold?
Three. two. one...
It's freezing!
He who dares. Nuno.
It's freezing. guys!
What will your cousin think?
You're too chicken to dive!
If we didn't live in Madrid.
he'd be sailing every day.
Aren't you going in. Marina?
- Come on!
- You dive in too.
It's good for the circulation!
- Dive in. Marina!
- Be warned: it's cold.
- Only at first. Just do it.
- Is it that cold?
- Come on. Marina!
- Go on!
Two...
Three!
- How is it?
- It's not the Mediterranean!
Are they done?
- Careful they don't burn.
- They won't.
Add a Iittle salt.
That one needs more salt.
- Can I help?
- No. don't worry. love.
Lois is an expert.
Not exactly...
- Do you like sardines?
- Yes.
Yes.
It smells good.
I hope they taste as good.
It's an experiment.
My parents lived there. right?
In that tall building.
Toralla. I think.
- You've been digging?
- Yeah.
I read it in my mum's diary.
They lived
in the building opposite...
What are you doing?
Honestly. he's like a four-year-old.
Look at him.
Honestly...
No. it can't have been Toralla.
For a long time. your parents lived
in the building facing Samil beach.
for two or three years
until your mum fell pregnant.
No. my mum got pregnant in Barcelona.
No. it was here.
The idea was
to bring you up here. in Vigo.
But your mum
wanted to go back to Barcelona.
That's when they broke up.
Didn't they break up
when Fon got sick?
No. that was way before.
It was before.
- Is it ready?
- Get off. you'll burn yourself.
Nuno. stop.
- It's not ready.
- Here.
Thanks. Mum.
Her parents lived
on Samil beach. right?
I don't know. we only went once.
Maybe you only went once.
I went a few times.
And I know for a fact it was Samil.
Kids. please.
Yes.
Yes. yes.
Okay. I'm ready.
Great. they're really nice.
Yes. they get a bit mixed up.
but they're really nice.
Nothing.
just with the things they tell me.
No big deal.
Mum. I'm on a really cool
sailing boat.
I don't know what normal ones
are like. but it's really cool.
It's much bigger
than it looks from the outside.
It must be really expensive.
Put her on. okay.
Hi. Grandma!
Great. here with the kids
cleaning forests.
Of course they feed us.
Yeah. there's one handsome boy.
but I don't want a boyfriend.
Yes. Grandma.
of course I'll come back.
Yes. don't worry. I will.
Not yet. but...
Paperwork problems.
I'm sorting it out.
I've talked to Lois.
No. it's fine. he's helping me.
Okay. speak soon.
Did you speak to your parents?
Yes. they don't know.
they need to organise themselves.
If they don't want us. we won't go.
They're missing out.
- They're confused.
- What about your sister?
All these arrangements...
If she wants to meet them all.
I can't deny her that.
Nuno. are you okay?
You're struggling a bit.
I just shuffled.
Let me see.
He smoked a joint.
I can't believe it.
- What did we say about this?
- Too far.
Druggie.
Go on. off you go.
- Offyou go.
- I'm out of patience.
What's this? A new jumper?
April 22nd. 1984.
It's 7:30 p.m. and I'm with Fon.
He's taking a nap.
I love watching him sleep.
You can see his dimples.
When we arrived yesterday.
the tide was out.
We caught crabs
and ate them for dinner.
The Cíes are so beautiful.
We're in a tent.
just like in the old days.
Completely alone with just the sound
of the sea and the birds.
Lord. our Father.
Hear our prayers
and grant all those lost at sea...
Give them eternal peace. Lord.
From God's great mercy.
saviour of souls lost at sea...
Look who's here.
Hello!
What are they doing here?
Look how smart your grandma looks.
Hello!
Look. Marina.
Our grandparents.
I just don't get it.
I don't get it.
Nuno. give me the helm.
The family are there.
You go.
Why are they here?
Didn't they say?
Hello!
Why are they doing here?
They weren't coming...
What's it like
meeting Gran and Grandpa like that?
Interesting.
You're lucky you didn't grow up here.
Hey.
- Good night.
- Night.
Day 2:
July 17. 2004
Who would I be
if my father's family
had raised me?
Excuse me. Hi.
- Hi.
- Do you live here?
Yes.
Can you see the Cíes Islands.
Cangas or Moaña from your windows?
From the windows on this side. yes.
Will you sing me the cat song?
It's not a song. love. it's a poem.
"Once I had a black and white cat
who was so beautiful
with a thick tail
and he was called Serafín".
Do you want some cold lemonade
or are you in a hurry?
Okay. yes. one second.
Thanks.
Will you help me?
How's it going?
Is it coming along well?
- More or less.
- Okay.
Your accent isn't familiar.
Where are you from?
- You're not Galician?
- No. Catalan.
Ah. you're Catalan.
You don't remember a Piñeiro?
No. because Piñeiro...
- Mum. sit down.
- Let's sit down.
It's to do with pine trees.
in Galicia...
- Maybe...
- It's a common surname.
Where are you off to. Iittle one?
Maybe Fon...
- Your dad was called...
- Well. Alfonso.
Alfonso or Fon.
No. it doesn't ring any bells.
What year did they live here?
It was...
I'm not really sure.
It was before 1986.
My dad died in 1987
when I was a baby.
I came to live here in 1987.
It was my second marriage and...
Mum. Teresa lived here.
the neighbour upstairs.
- We could ask her.
- Forget Teresa.
I've told you several times now.
Teresa's not well.
she has Alzheimer's.
Teresa doesn't work.
she won't remember anything.
Couldn't your mum tell you?
My biological mother died
a few years later. so...
Really? They both died?
In an accident or something?
Mum...
Well...
I'm just asking the girl. because...
It's her business.
November 28th. 1985.
I've been working
in a comic shop for a while.
It's so cool.
I open at noon and work until 2 p.m.
and then from 6 to 10 p.m.
The street's full of wine
and rad bars.
It's always buzzing.
It belongs to Fon's cousin. Xulia.
She's great.
a real sweetheart.
Unlike Fon's sisters.
- I liked the other one better.
- What's the problem with your arms?
I don't want them on show.
I'd rather cover them.
But Olalla...
- It's just wedding jitters.
- It's genetics too.
Why don't we put some natural silk
right down to your elbow?
I'll try it.
- I don't think so.
- Well I do!
Who's getting married. you or me?
And who's buying the dress?
You or me?
How about I get Ángela
to measure you?
You'll see how it feels.
If you don't like it. don't worry.
there's loads of options.
Thanks. Olalla.
I'll be with you in a moment.
Virginia. put my daughters
in the car and come here.
Now. I won't argue.
Just come here.
Now.
It's just my brother messed up.
like always.
He said you were coming earlier.
Now my sister's out delivering orders
with my daughters.
Pepe. you can't cut
that material like that.
- It needs cutting inside out.
- Okay. as you say.
I'm obviously late.
I can come back later.
No. it's no problem.
I'm just tired of being
the only organiser in the family.
Did you see the client?
She had some arms on her!
Like a tambourine.
They want me to work miracles
like Our Lady of Lourdes.
She can cut them off
and clap with her feet.
Consuelo. where did my sister
leave that red dress?
Look.
with this material
your gran made a shirt for your dad
after his military service.
but it's old-fashioned now.
I thought it'd be nice
to turn it into a dress.
- Thanks.
- You're welcome.
Put your hair up.
Oh my God...
Now. everything comes from China
these days and this is...
Girls. we have to redo this zip.
- Here. Olalla.
- No. I'll do it. Thanks.
Great! I got it right.
Because you have
the same constitution as your mother.
The spitting image.
Okay. arms up.
Don't move.
I don't want to prick you.
Well?
Do you have a boyfriend?
No.
I see.
Only because you don't want one.
I'll make your wedding dress.
I don't think I'll get married.
How modern of you.
Well done. Antía. you did it!
I can't.
Well done.
You can also say "Bloody Mary"
three times in front of the mirror.
- so you don't need to write it.
- Bloody Mary isn't scary.
But the Santa Compaña is.
- Why?
- Lots of people come and take you.
Marina's not scared of ghosts.
Are you. Marina?
No.
Marina. have you seen
the Santa Compaña?
No.
That's lucky because...
- What is it?
- It's creepy.
They're spirits that can't die.
Dead people that never die.
What. girls?
Sabela. always the same.
- You tell her.
- I'm not asking her.
It was your idea.
- You say it.
- Nothing.
One question.
Are you sick?
You don't look it.
Sick? Why?
Our mum said
that we can't touch your blood.
That we can't touch you.
What happened when you were a baby?
- You took ages. Auntie.
- You did.
- Did my sister give that to you?
- Yes.
Great.
Genius.
It was my idea.
- Do you like it?
- Yes. I love it.
I didn't know it was your idea.
- Belts on. girls.
- Auntie. I need a wee.
Seatbelt. Antía.
I'll give you a bottle. if you want.
Let's go.
Okay. I'll piss in it.
I can't believe
she gave it to you already.
Oh my God.
People in Vigo are
such gossips. Marina.
They asked how my divorce is going.
Don't you think that's rude?
They don't care.
Be careful. your mum will kill me!
Where's Quique?
I would've loved to bring you up.
Quique would be a good brother.
Sure.
To be honest. it's a good job
my siblings didn't bring you up.
One can't pay his own rent.
The other
sucks up to clients all day.
The third only comes
when he needs something.
I'm the only normal one
in this family.
How about that?
I always told them to call you.
Marina.
But your adoptive mum
wanted nothing to do with us.
Right.
Gran tried several times.
But she never got an answer.
Your dad took it really hard.
Good. I met my dad's sisters today.
It went fine.
They're peculiar.
Mum.
Is it possible that...
Over the years.
maybe when I was Iittle...
did Fon's mum call the house?
Do you remember?
Mum. they haven't said anything.
No.
That's not why I asked.
It was just a question.
Sorry. it doesn't matter.
I don't want to argue.
Yes.
No. not yet.
No. I talked to Lois.
we'll do it with my grandparents.
Don't worry. I'll get it.
I'm coming home with the certificate.
Don't worry.
Day 3:
July 18. 2004
How many ways
could you be young in the 80s?
How's it going. Iittle niece?
Isn't it a beautiful day?
- I'm not sure.
- Yes. it's beautiful.
This sea smells different
to the Mediterranean.
Of course it does.
This isn't a pond.
My parents lived over there. right?
- Where?
- In Samil.
No. who told you that?
Lois.
They didn't?
No. and Lois wouldn't know.
he was in France.
They lived in the big building
next to that one.
- In Toralla?
- Toralla. yes.
That's what I thought.
It was a cool time.
Then they ran out of money. but...
But it was cool.
- Know why I brought you here?
- No.
Your grandpa built this shipyard.
- Really?
- Yes.
It's his?
No. none of us
wanted to work with him.
It would've been hell.
Have you met him yet?
- No.
You will.
But...
"Piñeiro."
There you have it.
He sold it in the end.
Hello.
Can we go up?
I don't know.
I don't know whether to believe him.
but your grandpa told me
that barnacles got stuck to the boats
and they cleaned them here.
If not. they couldn't move.
- Why not?
- The barnacles slowed them down.
They had to clean them.
I don't know if it's true.
your grandpa exaggerates.
Hello.
Isn't it cool?
Look over there.
Your dad slept there.
This is my favourite place.
Shit!
Look. look!
Did you see it?
- Yes.
- It comes sometimes.
- You know it?
- Yes. It's a clever cat.
Isn't it hot?
Yes.
It doesn't work.
Yes. keep going.
Let's go outside.
This place is full of memories.
I remember your dad sailing
with flamenco music blasting out.
- Flamenco?
- Yes.
He started sailing because of me.
- Really?
Yes. He came to a regatta
with some friends.
That's the sea for you.
You like it. you're hooked.
Right.
Your dad sailed until his final days.
He thought AIDS was made up.
Anyway...
He went everywhere.
crossed the Atlantic.
- In this boat?
Yes. To Peru. with your mum.
- I read that in her diary.
- Really?
In her diary?
But never to Barcelona to see you.
I always told him to go.
He didn't have much time.
- Right.
- I was very Iittle.
There are so many stories
on this boat.
Plus those I don't know about.
I remember once...
The mast was struck by lightning.
they were loaded up on H
off the coast of Portugal.
A huge mess. the cops caught them.
They were unlucky.
We had to drive down
to pick them up...
H?
- What's H?
- You know. horse.
Heroin.
I didn't know they sold it too.
Was it for...?
What didn't they do?
November 17th. 1983.
Friday afternoon.
Fon fought with his brother
and didn't go to work today.
We have a thousand ideas.
If he quits.
there's nothing for us in Vigo.
There's a regatta.
England to Bayonne.
Fon wants to enter his boat.
I want to go and sell clothes
and other things I buy in London.
We also want to go to Peru.
We have so many plans.
I'll do it how I want.
but she's leaving with that document.
That's it.
I'll find a way to do it.
Let's see what happens
with my parents.
She Iooksjust like her mum.
- Who wants a beer?
- Me.
Me too.
Thank you.
Want a beer. Marina?
I don't drink.
The other Iittle orphan's
a goody-goody!
What are you doing?
You're a nosy parker.
- You're looking for something.
- Funny.
What are you looking for?
Let her look!
Same as always.
Hurry up. we're hungry.
- That's the main thing.
- Bingo!
You've made yourself at home.
I mean...
She's here more
than at her own house.
She has loads. she won't notice.
- True.
- Okay.
You finally learned
how to roll joints?
Did you?
- Save something for me.
- Shut up.
- None of this either. Marina?
- No.
Smoking a joint won't turn us
into our parents. you know.
Of course.
Look.
Who's that with the flowing locks?
Flowing locks...
It's Fon. isn't it?
- And her?
- My mum.
Look at her modern clothes.
We spent a lot of time together.
Where? Here?
Yes. she stayed here for ages.
Because my cousin was a badass.
In what way?
Well.
they sometimes ran out of money...
- This is Cíes.
- ...your dad used to go...
to your grandparents' house
and leave your mum stranded.
I used to take her in
and that made us closer.
- Wow.
- Yes.
I didn't know.
And my uncle...
- What?
- Your dad was a bastard.
- My dad?
- Yes. he was.
He used to give your mum 5.000 pesetas
never to see your dad again.
Seriously?
That was your grandpa.
- Grandpa?
- Well. he still is.
Yes. but he didn't manage it.
They loved each other.
despite their quarrels.
You know.
love and drugs isn't a good match...
but they did love each other.
Your mum was over the moon
about being pregnant.
Look. I wanted to show you
this photo.
This was a Iovely day.
It's your parents
with Lúa and Milton.
Uxia's parents.
- They were friends?
- Yes. yes.
Good friends.
They lived next door.
Look how pretty they were.
Both pregnant at the same time.
all day together.
They used to go out sailing.
This one here.
- that's your uncle Iago.
- Really?
Let me see...
- Do you remember?
- Of course I do.
I'm the only one still alive.
It's hard to believe.
It was a massacre. at the time.
They all dropped like flies.
Accidents. overdoses or AIDS.
We have other friends.
but it's not the same. right Iago?
No. it's not the same.
It's not the same.
When your dad died in 1992.
we lost two cousins too...
My dad died in 1987.
not 1992. when I was a baby.
No. Marina.
He didn't die in 1987.
Who told you that?
My family always said that.
No. Marina. your dad died in 1992.
But I would remember him.
I was five. In five years
he couldn't come to Barcelona?
No. he wasn't fit for that.
Do you know what happened to him
when he felt ill?
Well. when he got ill.
He heard your mother's voice.
He said:
"Bring Marina.
she's in the sitting room".
I told him there was nobody there.
He would insist:
"Marina's behind the door".
But I wasn't there.
No. but he heard your mum's voice
and thought you were both here.
I told him nobody was there.
He said: "Open the door.
listen to me. Xu".
He always called me "Xu".
March 10th. 1985.
It's 4:30 p.m.
and it's been ages since I slept.
And I'm wasted.
And my body's a wreck
from a bad trip last week.
And now I'm listening to
Lole y Manuel.
"And your eyes dig into me
Like a sword"
Dig into me like a sword
"Dig into me like a sword"
NOVEMBER 28. 1985
FEBRUARY 23. 1986
FEBRUARY 24. 1986
MARCH 3. 1986
Day 4:
July 19. 2004
Does sharing the same blood
make you part of the same family?
MUM CALLING
We're late.
Come on. let's go.
Where is your cousin?
The bride wore something old.
something new.
something borrowed.
and something blue.
The old represents her past.
in this case. a beautiful fan...
Mum?
Mum. we're all here.
- Hi. son.
- Marina's here too.
Mum...
Did you see the rain that day?
What bad luck.
Yes. yes.
Victoria told me.
she was invited to the wedding.
I don't know why.
The dress was filthy.
the train covered in mud.
Look. Mum.
This is Marina.
Hi.
Why's it taken you so long
to come and see us?
What do you mean. Mum?
She just turned 18.
she couldn't travel alone before.
You don't look like your mum.
- Granny...
- Gran. can we swim in the pool?
Hey. say hello first.
Hey. I'll infect you
with whatever I've got.
Headaches aren't contagious. Mum.
- Can we swim?
- No. you can't.
Why?
Because the water's clean.
I don't want you getting it dirty.
No. go on. get out.
You're crowding me.
Why have a pool. then?
- Well...
- Maybe later.
Let's go. Antía.
Come on.
Are you okay?
Let's go.
Come on. Mum.
It's time for your tablet.
You're so annoying with that tablet.
I don't want a tablet.
You don't know what's wrong with me.
What is wrong with you?
I'm in no state
for all this hustle and bustle.
What a Iovely thought. Mum.
I've been trying to decide
between cremation or burial.
- How nice!
- The church allows cremation now.
Fantastic.
I'm not taking any tablets.
She's impossible with those tablets.
You're so patient. Consuelo.
I'm just going to die.
I went to the hairdresser
for my last colour.
manicure and pedicure.
So I'm ready.
- She's just...
- Let her.
Antía.
Antía. no.
- Gran will love that.
- Look. it's "graffito".
She will kill you.
There's your cousin.
Antía!
Damn it!
No. don't laugh. bad girl!
You can't do that. bad girl!
No. it's not funny!
- What are you doing?
- Antía!
Don't talk to her like that.
Who gave Antía the lipstick?
- It was there.
- It was on the table.
Well?
Shall I cut the ham myself?
We're talking.
- The rest of us are working.
- We're coming.
She was at the civil registry
and apparently
she couldn't get what she needed.
Grandma's here.
Thanks. Consuelo.
Isn't it easier this way?
No. it's harder that way.
It's harder that way.
- Where's the pie?
- The pie is over there.
Great.
She's just like her mother.
The spitting image.
Mum. they didn't have
the tocinillos.
I had to buy an assortment of cakes.
- They're getting worse.
- They are.
- Cuca reported them.
- Doesn't surprise me.
So?
Did Grandma like the dress?
She didn't comment.
- Mum?
- What?
- Did you take your vitamins?
- Yes.
- And the tablet for your sugar?
Alfonso.
what are you doing with that?
Showing it to my son and grandkids
if I'm allowed.
- He's not answering.
- You're allowed.
Iago's not coming.
I was optimistic
thinking we could all make it.
Your brother thinks this is a hotel.
- Just this once.
- Iago's not coming?
Doesn't look like it.
What did you expect?
It's the festivities.
- What is it?
- Uncle Pepito's walking stick.
- Guys. look.
- What's that?
- Uncle Pepito's walking stick.
- Look at the details.
Very nice...
I'll put it back.
They all have the same ring.
Look out. it's going.
It's going.
You all cause such a fuss.
Behave yourselves. you two.
I want a peaceful party.
- What do you mean?
- I haven't told him yet.
Told me what?
Huh?
Well...
I need the boat this weekend.
you need to go to a hotel.
Ah. okay...
I'll clean it. air it
and fill the fridge with champagne.
Lois. enough.
- She did it again.
- We'll sort it out.
- Why speak in French?
- I'll translate.
I'm saying that we have to go
to a fucking hotel in my own city!
Mum. everything's so expensive.
There must be
bigger houses in Madrid.
I keep saying that.
Did you share with your brother?
I did at boarding school.
It was fun.
- If he has to change schools...
- What's the problem?
- Let's hope Nuno passes.
- It's my fault now?
You have to study hard
or you'll turn into a drug addict.
Being a good person's more important.
I've never seen thatjug.
Is it from Mexico?
- It's from Cuenca.
- From Peru.
If they come...
"Nuno".
"Nuno! Were you smoking?"
- "No. right?"
- I'll say it was yours...
"This is the sixth time..."
- They know.
- You've been caught before.
Exactly.
- Damn!
- Look!
What is it?
There's a spider.
It's massive.
Look. there's another one.
- I'll burn it.
- Let me see.
Hey! Don't burn it!
- It's a living thing.
- I don't like it.
- I don't care.
- You don't like it?
Look!
Look at it move its legs.
- Get off.
- It's disgusting.
- It won't hurt you.
- Don't!
- Seriously?
- Stop!
That's enough.
- Put it out!
Put it out.
- It's so cute!
- I'll kill you.
Come on!
Damn.
Have you finished it?
- Pass me the joint.
- You can't smoke.
Give me the joint.
You're such a pain.
Want a toke?
I don't smoke.
I always thought
this is where they hid your dad.
What?
You didn't know?
They hid him?
Yes. when he was sick.
Hey. drop it.
It wasn't here. don't be silly.
- But...
- Well. I mean...
All we know
is that his friends
couldn't come and see him.
Why?
So the whole ofVigo
wouldn't find out. basically.
Not even the family...
The family knew. right?
Yes. the family knew
but we didn't even go to the funeral.
We weren't in Spain yet.
I don't think so.
We lived in France
but we were very small.
To give you an idea.
Gran used to go into his room
wearing a mask and some gloves.
So you have an idea.
- I think. anyway.
- No way.
It doesn't seem real.
Everyone queue up.
like in the military service.
Right.
Are you ticklish?
Antía. the girl with beautiful eyes.
So. have you behaved yourself?
- Yes.
- Yes?
Really? Every day?
Yes.
- Well. this is for you then.
- Thanks.
Give it to your mum to put away
and give your Grandpa a kiss.
Good.
Hi.
Hi!
How's this pretty girl?
Good.
- How's school going?
- Really good.
Great. I'm pleased about that.
Give Grandpa a kiss!
Carlota.
You don't have a boyfriend. do you?
You're too young for that.
No.
Eugène has a girlfriend.
- What?
- Well!
But I'm 12.
- Thanks.
- A kiss.
You're welcome.
Enjoy it.
The biggest rascal of all!
- How are you?
- Good.
Seen my hair?
- I can see it.
- The back too.
Yes. yes.
- You're doing okay. Iittle man.
- Thanks.
Offyou go.
- Grandpa!
- The fencer.
- How's it going?
- Good.
- Good?
- Yes.
I cut my hair too.
- It was longer.
- I can see.
Just enough.
Go on.
Offyou run. go on.
It should have been for me.
Marina.
What are you going to study?
Cinema.
Cinema?
You can study that?
Well.
This is for you.
So you don't need a scholarship.
And then we don't trouble Granny.
she's very sensitive.
Alfonso. I can't accept this.
Why?
What's wrong?
I need a scholarship. not this.
This will replace the scholarship.
You're disregarding it?
That's not why I came.
Thank you. Alfonso.
Use it wisely.
- Sailor!
- Grandpa!
Well. young man.
Here.
Comb your hair for once.
What if I study cinema?
- Did you feel the earthquake?
- What earthquake?
An earthquake.
it said in the newspaper.
near to Portugal.
Near Lisbon?
Yes. there was a tremor.
I don't feel a thing with my pills.
Well I sure do.
- Ramón wants some wine too.
- I was going to offer him.
We'll order a couple of boxes.
It's delicious.
- Thanks.
- Did you make it?
Can we swim?
Yes. you can swim
but shower and wash your feet.
I don't want leaves
in the water like yesterday.
Keep an eye on your sister.
Don't swallow water.
For Marina.
Your dad's favourite.
Really?
Right. Mum?
- Here.
- No thanks.
- Mum.
- I don't feel like it.
- I'll have one of yours.
- The pastry?
It looks delicious.
- Delicious. Vir.
- Mum put more cinnamon in it.
Mum put more cinnamon in it. Vir!
You're an idiot.
The desserts I brought
are still in the fridge.
Get up and fetch them.
you dummy.
Dad. did you tell Lois
about the Faro de Vigo article?
What's that?
They're writing one.
It's about when I saved
that boat from going under
and they didn't pay me.
Great. Dad.
Marina. at sea. when a boat
is going under and another saves it.
they have to pay them by Iaw.
He's bitter.
I did a good job. what can I say?
In fact. Marina could make a good film
out of that story.
You could make a soap opera.
Yes.
As long as they tell it how it is
and don't make things up.
Like you're the expert on interviews!
He's a properjournalist.
he's nifty.
a friend of mine.
He's quite well known.
He's good. I've been following him.
What I want to make clear is
that if we'd been in English waters.
not only would they have paid me.
I'd be famous too.
But we live in a phony country...
If Spain disappeared.
the world would work better.
We won't talk about politics.
You're gonna be famous. Dad.
We'll see.
Sure. egg him on.
What's going on out there?
- What's happening?
- Nothing. Mum
Where's she going?
Grandma has left the table.
Grandma told you to shower!
What did I say?
I said to shower before the pool.
Eugène!
Those kids of yours are wild. you know.
They're rude.
Eugène. did you shower before?
No. but I'm not dirty.
Mum. you're wearing heels.
Gran!
Don't "Gran" me.
Look at the state of the pool.
I'm saying nothing.
but Mum's gone.
There's no peace here.
Sometimes.
She shouldn't drink wine!
Like a tango...
She can't see us now.
He made a fanny out of a mango
- You don't know it.
- How does it go then?
Don't come round here for a fuck
You do that. but never knock me up
- That's the other one.
- What?
No. no. no. it went...
She was an old lady
She did things well. she was the best
No one defied the old woman's chest
Consuelo. wasn't that it?
You can't. no knowledge norwill
You've lost your skills
Stop. stop. don't you dare
Don't touch me down there
Go anywhere near my underwear
Stop. stop. don't you dare
Don't touch me down there
Hey! I can hear you!
We don't sing that song!
Stop. stop. don't you dare
Go anywhere near my underwear
Sort it out. Dad!
Don't touch me down there
Stop. stop. don't you dare
Go anywhere near my underwear
Don't move.
Don't get up!
If the police go by...
- What's that?
- I stole it from Grandpa. Want some?
From Grandpa?
No way!
Put some here.
I want to smell it.
- This was Gran's.
- It smells good.
Grandpa has more hair than before.
did you notice?
How could he have more hair?
Maybe it's a toupée.
If you went bald.
would you wear one. Dad?
Can you imagine Dad bald?
- It would be awesome.
- Bald with a beard?
- Bald with a beard.
- Yeah.
Nuno.
I think Grandpa got a hair implant
and he's hiding it.
Because we all know
Grandpa hides many things.
Like they hid Fon. right?
What do you mean?
That's what you told us. Dad.
I never said they hid Fon.
So now they didn't?
His friends couldn't see him.
nobody knew where he was...
Why did they hide him?
Where?
They didn't hide him.
he was with the family.
How would you know?
You weren't there. Lois.
It's the Vigo festivities tonight.
The Vigo festivities?
Wow... Count me out.
No. you have to come.
No partying tonight.
Why not. Dad?
- I said no partying tonight.
- But why?
I don't fucking feel like it!
4 MISSED CALLS
Nuno?
Headphones out.
What?
Can you drive your dad's car?
Yes. why?
Take me to Gran and Grandpa's
and I'll come to the festivities.
And the keys?
Steal them.
- Me?
- I'll do it if you want.
What?
Help me.
What are you going to do?
My bumbag.
- What have you got me into?
- Look who's here!
Hey. Nuno!
- How are you?
- Hi!
- Are you having fun?
- Yes!
Hi!
Hello.
What's up?
- Are you dumb?
- What?
- What? Don't you want some?
- Sure.
- Where did you get it?
- You want some?
- Where do you think I got it?
- You tell me.
And you.
don't be a bore.
What are you doing?
- You don't pick things off the ground.
- It's mine.
It's not yours. it's mine.
Iago!
A Iittle more.
Hey!
How's it going. Iittle niece?
I thought I wouldn't see you again.
How did it go with Gran and Grandpa?
Well...
- I couldn't make it.
- Yes. I noticed.
- Why?
- I was with a mate.
He's amazing. but a party animal.
You'd like him.
I wanted to introduce you.
he makes violins.
- Cool.
- I have one of his.
- You play the violin?
- I can't play shit. but I have one.
I forgot my keys. my wallet...
I didn't forget my head
because it's attached to my neck.
Can I have some cash?
Of course.
You always save me.
Ignore me.
How much?
A couple of euros.
- Pitu. a drink for my niece.
- No. no.
How are Gran and Grandpa?
Well...
Did they hide Fon?
When he was sick.
Who told you that?
Nuno and Basilio.
Your grandparents are terrible.
You've met them now. right?
It was common before.
Everyone died behind closed doors.
So...
I'm not making excuses for them.
but it was common before.
So...
Fon never came to Barcelona
because he was hidden?
If not.
I don't get why I never met him.
No. love. listen...
Your grandparents think we got hooked
on heroin on purpose.
That's not true.
When horse is in your life.
it rules you.
It's not that your dad didn't want
to see you or be your dad.
he just couldn't.
Do you understand?
He couldn't be my brother either.
or his parents' son...
He was hooked.
He used until his last day.
- Do you understand that?
- Yes.
He was hooked.
used until his last day.
Do you understand that. love?
Yes.
- Have a drink.
- I don't want one.
Give her one.
- Well. well. well...
- Hi. there.
If it isn't Iago!
Where have you been?
Shit. María!
How's it going?
How's your sister?
How are you?
I'm just here with my niece.
Pitu. another round.
- Nachete's paying. he's doing great.
- I thought as much.
Marina.
You see. we weren't dead.
They just hid us away.
Don't even think about
reading this diary.
A rose cries for love
September 17th. 1983.
I should know tonnes about sailing
by now. but I'm lazy
and when I'm on the boat
I love sunbathing.
But anyway.
I'm learning something
because Fon teaches me.
He's a great sailor.
The flat Fon and I got
is really nice.
From the bedroom.
we can see the Ria.
Cangas. Moaña.
the Cíes Islands and the sea.
Sometimes it's calm. blue. peaceful.
Sometimes wild. choppy.
but always the sea.
And your eyes
Dig into me
Like a sword
October 24th. 1983.
I don't have any plans
oryearnings to return to Barcelona.
I think what I'd be doing there:
Hospital work. selling hash.
hooking up with guys...
It was clearly time for me to leave.
Things are great with Fon.
Things are going well.
but I can't help thinking
things start well. then I get tired.
I guess that's living in the moment.
what will be will be. right?
Hey!
They're waiting for you
at the lighthouse!
Thanks!
May 15th. 1984.
The sky has been clear and sunny
and I started the astrology course.
When I know more.
I'll be able to do birth charts.
Last Sunday went to Iago's
to watch some slides
we made of the new moon
during a party at his place.
It did us good.
we'd come from a funeral.
One of Fon's cousins lost control
and died.
It was shit.
It was the first time I saw Fon cry.
ON THE ROCKS AT 7:00
June 5th. 1984.
What happened with the old Americans
is a good story.
Fon and I met them in Vigo.
We got on well and they invited us
to their house on Saint Croix.
an island
between Puerto Rico and Jamaica.
We want to leave Vigo
as soon as the weather gets better.
It would be amazing
to cross the whole Atlantic
and reach the sun.
the Caribbean vibe.
I'd love that.
January 21st. 1985.
Maybe it's this sun.
but the Peruvians are happy.
They're jolly
and they're a damn good time.
On the first day. we went to get
what they call "paste".
We tried it all night.
it was great.
Another day.
they gave us some coke.
You get so high.
you'd never stop...
We want to go to Cusco
to see Machu Picchu
and to Pucallpa.
a place in the jungle
where a witch
gave Fon ayahuasca last year.
I don't know what it is.
but it's supposed to be amazing.
March 10th. 1985.
The last few days were amazing.
The flowers sang
and the elephants wore suits
and strolled around the port.
People didn't work
and laughed.
and wore dresses that were yellow.
green. white.
and everyone fucked
in the middle of the street.
They talked to purple dolphins
and gave them hash
and the trees helped you
with their shade.
But today.
right now.
it's starting to rain.
What will happen?
Will everything stay the same?
"And your eyes"
Dig into me
Like a sword
"Dig into me like a sword"
And now I'm listening to Lole y Manuel.
You are under arrest.
Repeat. this is the coastguard.
All crew are under arrest.
I'll kill you with my tap shoes
I'll strangle you
With my ballet tights
I'll hang you
with my tuxedo
And you'll die
While the DJ laughs
I'll dance on your grave
I'll slit your throat
With a sharp record
By The Rolling Stones
Or The Shadows
You'll choke on the tape collection
By The Shangri-Ias
Or The Ronettes
I'll dance on your grave
November 28th. 1985.
I have tonnes of time to write.
We've been short of money
since Fon fought with his dad
and stopped working for him.
I've been working
in a comic shop for a while.
It's so cool.
I wrote a Ietterto Mum today.
I hadn't written to her
for a few days
and she worries
if she doesn't hear from me.
I didn't tell her
about Fon's friend's accident.
She'd worry too much.
I don't want her worrying about me.
Not her. not anyone.
- Move.
- No.
- Move!
- No!
June 17th. 1986.
I'm a real sailor now.
I'm really strong.
What with the boat job
and Miguel leaving.
I had some cravings
but since then.
I stopped completely.
I'm happy.
I like the drug.
but I don't want it to control me.
It happens so easily.
I don't know...
I'm fine right now.
I feel healthy.
with a natural rhythm in my body.
I'm even thinking
about having this baby.
Fon thinks I'm crazy.
but I can convince him.
Day 5:
July 20. 2004
I really like the sea here.
She was rude.
How could she drop the money there?
It was never about money.
Can't you understand?
What then?
- She wants us all to sign a document.
- It's not complicated.
The problem is we never talk
in this family. Mum.
- Fine. We don't talk.
- Not about certain things.
And why's that?
Where are you when we need to talk?
And who's here?
- Where am I?
- Yes.
- I'm here now.
- Yes. now...
How many siblings were we?
- This only hurts you. does it?
- No. no.
It's more important
that the girl turns up.
We're not talking about money. we're...
There she is.
Marina!
Are you okay?
- Did something happen?
- No.
- Are you hurt? Where were you?
- I'm fine.
- Are you sure?
- Yes.
Do you want a shower?
- Yes?
- Yes.
Right...
If everybody's here.
we'll go ahead.
I'll read the document.
"We are requesting formal recognition
of the bloodline of our son
before you.
the Vigo Civil Registry Office.
For this purpose.
we declare under oath
"that our late son..."
Name. please?
Alfonso.
First surname?
Alfonso Piñeiro.
- Second surname?
- De Ia Cruz.
Son of...?
Alfonso Piñeiro
and Rosalía de Ia Cruz.
- Marital status?
- Single.
Biological father of Miss...
Marina Piñeiro...
Torrent.
Piñeiro Torrent.
Marina Piñeiro Torrent.
- Nationality?
- Spanish.
- Place of death?
- Santiago.
Santiago?
Rosaleda Street...
Rosaleda Street 18B. Santiago.
Rosaleda Street 18B.
Santiago de Compostela.
Time and date of death?
At 8 p.m.
on the January 9th. 1992.
Cause of death?
Hepatitis C.
No. it was AIDS.
My mother and father died of AIDS.
Okay. we'll correct that.
Now this young lady can apply
for any university grant she needs.
Thank you.
We just have to do some photocopies.
I need all of your ID cards
I have Mum and Dad's.
I really like the sea here.
Of course. like your dad.
Yes. like my dad.
That's perfect. Marina!
Come back now.
All yours.
Remember.
that's your reference point.
What are you doing?
No. no.
I film. you sail.
Give it to me.
Don't touch my camera.
- Leave me alone!
- Give it to me!
Let me record you.
Nuno.
Get off!
What now?
Hi!
Move!
So annoying.
Cousins.
Your cousins.
Dolphins!
Dolphins over there!
- Dolphins over there!
- Dolphins!
Dolphins. over there!
Where?
Record this. Marina.
Look!
There!
There.
Translation: Amy Sue Bennett
Subtitles: Bbo Subtitulado
BDRipped by jirro